README.md, before:

# Scripts and startup

In the project directory, you can run:

### `npm start`

Navigate to the location of this repository on your machine and and run:
```
npm start
```
Open [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080) to view it in your browser.

### `npm run build`
If you want to get the application ready for production, navigate to the location of this repository on your machine and run:
```
npm run build
```

This builds the app for production to the `build` folder.\
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.\
Your app is ready to be deployed!

See the section about [deployment](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment) for more information.

# Understanding the code

This section is targeted towards developers

## The systems

The overall system and flow is designed in collaboration with DTU. 

### Hosts

Hosts are represented as objects that are saved in local memory.

![Host update loop](./Flow_images/addHost.png)

```js
{
    addedFrom: hostname_of_service_registry_or_local,
    config: config_of_resource,
    id: uuid_id_made_in_frontend,
    name: hostname_of_resource,
    status: "online" || "offline",
    type: { 
        label: "miner" || "repository" || "service registry", 
        value: "miner" || "repository" || "service registry"
    }
}
```

### Processes

Processes is are represented as javascript objects located in local memory that has information of which foreign process is running. From the frontend, this is used to determine the state of the foreign process, and when to retreive the results. To create a process, create a process object, and save it to localmemory. In App.jsx, exists an interval, that will ping running processes, thus keeping the user up to date with all processes created by the initiator.

![Start and add a process](./Flow_images/runMiner.png)

Processes are created upon successfully submitting an action to a miner. This will save a process to local memory, which will then be handled in an inverval which will check status, and respond accordingly by either getting a metadata and file, or by setting and error. Only "running" processes will be pinged. 

A process looks like this:
```js
{
    id: some_uuid,
    objectType: "process",
    hostname: hostname.net.org.com,
    processId: number_from_miner,
    processName: label_from_miner,
    status: "running || complete || crash || stopped",
    progress: 0,
    startTime: number_of_ms_since_1970,
    endTime: number_of_ms_since_1970,
    outputDestination: somedestinationhostname.net.org.com,
    error: null,
    resourceId: some_uuid,
    saveOrUpdateFile: bool,
    resourceLabel: name_of_generated_resource,
}
```

1. <b>id:</b> Key that is used for storing and referencing this object from localMemory.
2. <b>objectType:</b> Used to filter processes from files and hosts in localMemory.
3. <b>hostname:</b> Reference to the host where the process is/was running.
4. <b>processId:</b> Reference to the processId generated by the miner that is/was running.
5. <b>processName:</b> Name of the process that is running. Given by the miner (e.g. "Alpha miner").
6. <b>status:</b> The status of the process, given from the miner.
7. <b>progress:</b> How long has the process been running (currentTime - startTime || endTime - startTime)
8. <b>startTime:</b> Represented as ms since 1970. src/Utils/Utils.js help convert to human understandable format.
9. <b>endTime:</b> Represented as ms since 1970. src/Utils/Utils.js help convert to human understandable format.
10. <b>outputDestination:</b> Where the mining result will be sent.
11. <b>error:</b> Errors will be save in this attribute.
12. <b>resourceId:</b> Reference to the output that is created from this process.
13. <b>saveOrUpdateFile:</b> A boolean that determines if the output should be saved/updated. Is only changed and read in src/Utils/ServiceHelper.js.
14. <b>resourceLabel:</b> Reference to the name of the generated file. As Files and Processes are split, and can be deleted indepedently, this ensures the process has the name of the file. 

### Files

Files consist of two components: Metadata and content. Metadata is a bunch of information wrapping the contents in this application, while it might be seen differently on external services.

#### Metadata

The file metadata is a javascript object, that has relevant information pretaining to a file. The contents is used to display information in various areas of the frontend, determine the type, visualization posibilities and completion state of a file. Much of the information is also used to determine if communcation is necessary with either the producer, or the repository that holds it.

the Files are saved like this in local memory:
```js
{
    CreationDate: "some_number_of_ms_since_1970",
    GenerationTree : {
        Children: null,
        GeneratedFrom: {
            SourceHost: "hostname_of_miner_that_created_this_resource", 
            SourceId: "id_of_miner_that_created_this_resource", 
            SourceLabel: "name_of_miner_that_created_this_resource"
        },
        Parents: [
            {
                ResourceId: "parent_resourceId", 
                UsedAs: "miner_config_ResourceInput_value"
            }
        ]
    },
    ResourceId: "id_of_self_generated_from_repository",
    ResourceInfo: {
        Description: "description_of_self",
        Dynamic: false, // Shows if resource can change
        FileExtension: "file_extension_of_self e.g. png, pnml, bpmn",
        Host: "{hostname}/resources/",
        ResourceLabel: "name_of_self",
        ResourceType: "EventStream || ProcessModel || PetriNet || Histogram",
        StreamTopic: "topic_of_self_if_stream",
    },
    fileContent: the_file_contents,
    repositoryUrl: used_to_request_the_actual_file
    processId: reference_to_process_that_created_file
}
```

How this information is used for this project:

1. <b>CreationDate:</b> This is used for sorting files, as well as a deplay value on file cards in the sidebar. Utility functions found in /src/Utils/Utils are used to convert the format into human readable information.
2. <b>Generation tree:</b> This is information is only used in repository.
3. <b>ResourceId:</b> The metadata is stored in localMemory using this key, and therefore the key to accessing the information from a specific file.
4. <b>ResourceInfo:</b>
    1. <b>Description:</b> Not implemented. Intented for additional information.
    2. <b>Dynamic:</b> Is resource expected to update. Resource will be requested in regular intervals when selected in the visualizations screen (only the file that is selected).
    3. <b>FileExtension:</b> Used by miner and repository for running and saving.
    4. <b>Host:</b> Owner of the file. Used to request for updates, or by miner to fetch the file from repository.
    5. <b>ResourceLabel:</b> The name of the file seen everywhere on the frontend.
    6. <b>ResourceType:</b> Used to determine which visualization can be displayed. Also used to filter input files when running a miner, to only provide allowed files.
    7. <b>StreamTopic:</b> A pointer to a stream on a broker located on the address showed in the "Host" attibute.
5. <b>FileContent:</b> This key only exist in the frontend, and holds the file data. This could be a BPMN string, a saved image or otherwise.
6. <b>repositoryUrl:</b> This key is used as a reference to get the actual files content.
7. <b>ProcessId:</b> Reference to the process that spawned this file. This is created when starting a process from the frontend, and saved in the output files object on this key.

#### Content

The file contents are important for certain file types. This will be the actual text, image or other that the file consists of. For log files, we don't want to save it on the frontend and request a histogram instead, but BPMN is necessary to visualize the model. The contents is added to the file Metadata in local memory. Metadata will always be requested before requesting the file contents. This is necessary because the frontend will never make changes to these objects, thus relying on external processes to update them. 

### Service helper

ServiceHelper.js is an important file, as it consist of function that measures external data such as process status, files and hosts. Each function is designed to run once, where an interval in the App.jsx will be responsible for running the functions. The interval request-rate can be found in the config.js. 

![Process update loop](./Flow_images/pingProcess.png)

![Process update loop](./Flow_images/pingHosts.png)

### Visualizations

The rules that determine what visualizations the frontend can display, can be found in config.js. The contents of metadata will be compared to the list of allowed visualizations, and pull information from repository as needed. Therefore, the frontend will not show content that cannot be visualized. 

To add visualizations, go to config.js and change the visualizationConfig variable. The keys are used for lookup, as the combination of resourceType and fileExtension is necessary to select the correct visualization. If the lookup returns with nothing, only the generation-tree is available for the resource, such as for streams, flowcharts and other unimplemented visualizations. This also means, that one resourceType can be represented by many different file types. For example, a resource of type BPMN can be visualized as either a BPMN diagram generated from a .BPMN file, or as an image. 

![Process update loop](./Flow_images/selectVisualization.png)

#### Create a new visualization

1. Add a new folder in /src/Components/Visualizations
2. Add a .jsx and .scss file in the new folder
3. Create the visualization component
4. Add the component by importing your new component in Visualizations.jsx
5. Near the bottom of the return in Visualizations.jsx, add your condition and component
6. Update config.js with the new resourceType and file extension combination. This can also include changes to existing visualizations.

### Popups

Most actions that user can do, happens in a popup. This allows for clear distinction of what a user can do, while keeping more space free for visualizations and overview of added processes and files. 

#### Create a new popup

1. Add a state variable in App.jsx.
2. Add a toggle function for the variable.
3. Add the variable, setter and toggle function to the props object sent to the Home.jsx component.
4. Create a new folder in /src/Components/Popup and add a .jsx file and a .scss file.
5. Create a component using the utility components BackdropModal Popup from the Widgets folder.
6. Add the component in the Home.jsx return, and set the condition for displaying as the state variable from step 1.

### Clone a miner

It is possible to clone an executable miner from one host to another. This will update the configuration of the receiver and thereby requires all interested parties to retrieve the new configuration. The purpose of this feature is to allow users to run programs from a controlled environment, which provides options for using sensitive data, or measure efficiency. Configurations will be fetched on page-reload. If the host is added through a service registry, the  configuration configuration will be fetched from the service registry instead of the host.

![Shadow miner](./Flow_images/Shadow.png)

Commit message:

Large refractoring and commenting of the code
The purpose of this commit is to make it easier for new developers to add and change the project. It's more readable, and the quirks of now described with "how" and "why"

README.md, after:

# Scripts and startup

In the project directory, you can run:

### `npm install`

Navigate to the location of this project on your machine and run:
```
npm install
```
This will install all the required dependencies needed to run the application.

### `npm start`

Navigate to the location of this repository on your machine and and run:
```
npm start
```
Open [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080) to view it in your browser.

### `npm run build`
If you want to get the application ready for production, navigate to the location of this repository on your machine and run:
```
npm run build
```

This builds the app for production to the `build` folder.\
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.\
Your app is ready to be deployed!

See the section about [deployment](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment) for more information.

# Understanding the code

This section is targeted towards developers

## The systems

The overall system and flow is designed in collaboration with DTU. 

### Hosts

Hosts are represented as objects that are saved in local memory.

![Host update loop](./Flow_images/addHost.png)

```js
{
    addedFrom: hostname_of_service_registry_or_local,
    config: config_of_resource,
    id: uuid_id_made_in_frontend,
    name: hostname_of_resource,
    status: "online" || "offline",
    type: { 
        label: "miner" || "repository" || "service registry", 
        value: "miner" || "repository" || "service registry"
    }
}
```

### Processes

Processes is are represented as javascript objects located in local memory that has information of which foreign process is running. From the frontend, this is used to determine the state of the foreign process, and when to retreive the results. To create a process, create a process object, and save it to localmemory. In App.jsx, exists an interval, that will ping running processes, thus keeping the user up to date with all processes created by the initiator.

![Start and add a process](./Flow_images/runMiner.png)

Processes are created upon successfully submitting an action to a miner. This will save a process to local memory, which will then be handled in an inverval which will check status, and respond accordingly by either getting a metadata and file, or by setting and error. Only "running" processes will be pinged. 

A process looks like this:
```js
{
    id: some_uuid,
    objectType: "process",
    hostname: hostname.net.org.com,
    processId: number_from_miner,
    processName: label_from_miner,
    status: "running || complete || crash || stopped",
    progress: 0,
    startTime: number_of_ms_since_1970,
    endTime: number_of_ms_since_1970,
    outputDestination: somedestinationhostname.net.org.com,
    error: null,
    resourceId: some_uuid,
    saveOrUpdateFile: bool,
    resourceLabel: name_of_generated_resource,
}
```

1. <b>id:</b> Key that is used for storing and referencing this object from localMemory.
2. <b>objectType:</b> Used to filter processes from files and hosts in localMemory.
3. <b>hostname:</b> Reference to the host where the process is/was running.
4. <b>processId:</b> Reference to the processId generated by the miner that is/was running.
5. <b>processName:</b> Name of the process that is running. Given by the miner (e.g. "Alpha miner").
6. <b>status:</b> The status of the process, given from the miner.
7. <b>progress:</b> How long has the process been running (currentTime - startTime || endTime - startTime)
8. <b>startTime:</b> Represented as ms since 1970. src/Utils/Utils.js help convert to human understandable format.
9. <b>endTime:</b> Represented as ms since 1970. src/Utils/Utils.js help convert to human understandable format.
10. <b>outputDestination:</b> Where the mining result will be sent.
11. <b>error:</b> Errors will be save in this attribute.
12. <b>resourceId:</b> Reference to the output that is created from this process.
13. <b>saveOrUpdateFile:</b> A boolean that determines if the output should be saved/updated. Is only changed and read in src/Utils/ServiceHelper.js.
14. <b>resourceLabel:</b> Reference to the name of the generated file. As Files and Processes are split, and can be deleted indepedently, this ensures the process has the name of the file. 

### Files

Files consist of two components: Metadata and content. Metadata is a bunch of information wrapping the contents in this application, while it might be seen differently on external services.

#### Metadata

The file metadata is a javascript object, that has relevant information pretaining to a file. The contents is used to display information in various areas of the frontend, determine the type, visualization posibilities and completion state of a file. Much of the information is also used to determine if communcation is necessary with either the producer, or the repository that holds it.

the Files are saved like this in local memory:
```js
{
    CreationDate: "some_number_of_ms_since_1970",
    GenerationTree : {
        Children: null,
        GeneratedFrom: {
            SourceHost: "hostname_of_miner_that_created_this_resource", 
            SourceId: "id_of_miner_that_created_this_resource", 
            SourceLabel: "name_of_miner_that_created_this_resource"
        },
        Parents: [
            {
                ResourceId: "parent_resourceId", 
                UsedAs: "miner_config_ResourceInput_value"
            }
        ]
    },
    ResourceId: "id_of_self_generated_from_repository",
    ResourceInfo: {
        Description: "description_of_self",
        Dynamic: false, // Shows if resource can change
        FileExtension: "file_extension_of_self e.g. png, pnml, bpmn",
        Host: "{hostname}/resources/",
        ResourceLabel: "name_of_self",
        ResourceType: "EventStream || ProcessModel || PetriNet || Histogram",
        StreamTopic: "topic_of_self_if_stream",
    },
    fileContent: the_file_contents,
    repositoryUrl: used_to_request_the_actual_file
    processId: reference_to_process_that_created_file
}
```

How this information is used for this project:

1. <b>CreationDate:</b> This is used for sorting files, as well as a deplay value on file cards in the sidebar. Utility functions found in /src/Utils/Utils are used to convert the format into human readable information.
2. <b>Generation tree:</b> This is information is only used in repository.
3. <b>ResourceId:</b> The metadata is stored in localMemory using this key, and therefore the key to accessing the information from a specific file.
4. <b>ResourceInfo:</b>
    1. <b>Description:</b> Not implemented. Intented for additional information.
    2. <b>Dynamic:</b> Is resource expected to update. Resource will be requested in regular intervals when selected in the visualizations screen (only the file that is selected).
    3. <b>FileExtension:</b> Used by miner and repository for running and saving.
    4. <b>Host:</b> Owner of the file. Used to request for updates, or by miner to fetch the file from repository.
    5. <b>ResourceLabel:</b> The name of the file seen everywhere on the frontend.
    6. <b>ResourceType:</b> Used to determine which visualization can be displayed. Also used to filter input files when running a miner, to only provide allowed files.
    7. <b>StreamTopic:</b> A pointer to a stream on a broker located on the address showed in the "Host" attibute.
5. <b>FileContent:</b> This key only exist in the frontend, and holds the file data. This could be a BPMN string, a saved image or otherwise.
6. <b>repositoryUrl:</b> This key is used as a reference to get the actual files content.
7. <b>ProcessId:</b> Reference to the process that spawned this file. This is created when starting a process from the frontend, and saved in the output files object on this key.

#### Content

The file contents are important for certain file types. This will be the actual text, image or other that the file consists of. For log files, we don't want to save it on the frontend and request a histogram instead, but BPMN is necessary to visualize the model. The contents is added to the file Metadata in local memory. Metadata will always be requested before requesting the file contents. This is necessary because the frontend will never make changes to these objects, thus relying on external processes to update them. 

### Service helper

ServiceHelper.js is an important file, as it consist of function that measures external data such as process status, files and hosts. Each function is designed to run once, where an interval in the App.jsx will be responsible for running the functions. The interval request-rate can be found in the config.js. 

![Process update loop](./Flow_images/pingProcess.png)

![Process update loop](./Flow_images/pingHosts.png)

### Visualizations

The rules that determine what visualizations the frontend can display, can be found in config.js. The contents of metadata will be compared to the list of allowed visualizations, and pull information from repository as needed. Therefore, the frontend will not show content that cannot be visualized. 

To add visualizations, go to config.js and change the visualizationConfig variable. The keys are used for lookup, as the combination of resourceType and fileExtension is necessary to select the correct visualization. If the lookup returns with nothing, only the generation-tree is available for the resource, such as for streams, flowcharts and other unimplemented visualizations. This also means, that one resourceType can be represented by many different file types. For example, a resource of type BPMN can be visualized as either a BPMN diagram generated from a .BPMN file, or as an image. 

![Process update loop](./Flow_images/selectVisualization.png)

#### Create a new visualization

1. Add a new folder in /src/Components/Visualizations
2. Add a .jsx and .scss file in the new folder
3. Create the visualization component
4. Add the component by importing your new component in Visualizations.jsx
5. Near the bottom of the return in Visualizations.jsx, add your condition and component
6. Update config.js with the new resourceType and file extension combination. This can also include changes to existing visualizations.

### Popups

Most actions that user can do, happens in a popup. This allows for clear distinction of what a user can do, while keeping more space free for visualizations and overview of added processes and files. 

#### Create a new popup

1. Add a state variable in App.jsx.
2. Add a toggle function for the variable.
3. Add the variable, setter and toggle function to the props object sent to the Home.jsx component.
4. Create a new folder in /src/Components/Popup and add a .jsx file and a .scss file.
5. Create a component using the utility components BackdropModal Popup from the Widgets folder.
6. Add the component in the Home.jsx return, and set the condition for displaying as the state variable from step 1.

### Clone a miner

It is possible to clone an executable miner from one host to another. This will update the configuration of the receiver and thereby requires all interested parties to retrieve the new configuration. The purpose of this feature is to allow users to run programs from a controlled environment, which provides options for using sensitive data, or measure efficiency. Configurations will be fetched on page-reload. If the host is added through a service registry, the  configuration configuration will be fetched from the service registry instead of the host.

![Shadow miner](./Flow_images/Shadow.png)
